Our scripture this morning comes to us from the book of 1 John 1:8-10.
This might sound familiar to you all.
But I invite you to hear the word of the Lord this morning anew.
And freshly
If we claim
We don't have any sin.
We deceive ourselves
And the truth is not in us.
But,
If we confess our sin,
He is faithful and just.
To forgive our sins.
And cleanse us from everything we've done wrong.
If we claim
we have never sinned.
We make him a liar.
And his word is not in us.
This is the word of God for us, the people of God.
Thanks be to God.
Let us pray.
Oh God have mercy on me a sinner
Have mercy on us all.
And let my unclean lips.
Be made clean by the coal that you promised Isaiah.
So that the words of my mouth
And the meditations of all of our hearts.
Might be acceptable in thy sight.
Oh, Lord.
Arbok.
and are redeemed.
Amen.
Confession feels dangerous to me.
Maybe it feels dangerous to you.
and i think for me at least the reason why it feels dangerous.
It's because over and over again, the church has proved itself to be
To be an institution that cannot handle a confession.
It's not a safe place.
for confession to take place.
The feeling of needing to move a sinful action of ours out into the light.
So that there can be public accountability.
Is terrifying to many.
Because the church has used this information to cast judgment.
And shun
and reject our Christian siblings.
I think we're also afraid of the consequences.
For our sin.
I know that we'd love to be able to
Confess that we've done wrong and then
Have that magically removed
All the consequences of the things that we've done wrong.
In our hearts, we know that's not how the world works.
And so we hold on to our sins
And then the burden
Eats us alive
All while maintaining an illusion.
That we have it all together.
That we're living our best lives now.
Friends, that's not what God wants from us at all.
Confession liberates us and others.
It's not just from holding the things that weigh us down.
Confessing allows Jesus to release us from the weight of
Of keeping sin secret.
From the weight of.
Guilt itself.
It's healthy for us to make confession.
In good ways with people who we know will not hold this information.
Against us we know how to keep that information secret between us and
Thank God.
And then
There's a reason that many understand their pastors.
as proper people to receive confession.
As Foster says in his book Celebration of Disciplined Pastors, are very often folks who recognize the significance of Jesus' work on the cross.
across and who know the reality of
That every human being has sinned and fallen short
and the glory of God.
They also know that they are chief.
Among the sinners.
Just as Paul said himself.
Pastors cannot burden shoulder the burden of confession alone.
There's something,
Very
important.
About having the kind of real relationships with your fellow Christian siblings, your fellow siblings in Christ.
The kind of relationships that allow for real confession to happen.
But the church has not done well.
With stressing the corporate discipline.
A confession.
This group activity that should get us closer to God.
And so we have become a people who not only do we not admit to each other,
when we've done something wrong.
But we also don't admit to the people who matter most in our lives and the places that matter most.
In our lives.
The places that need the witness of our confession the most.
Our homes.
At work.
Our friendships
Forget it.
Admitting that we've done something wrong in those places.
Instead, we have a certain brand of Christianity that has been given to us, that encourages us to double down when we know that we've done something wrong, because admitting that we.
Something that we've done something wrong is a sign of weakness.
It's a sign that you're a beta.
That you're woke.
That you're giving in to the pressure of a culture that won't let you be you.
And instead,
To seek the self-centeredness that we all think that we're
Entitled to.
Jesus is not in that attitude of self-sufficiency and isolationism.
Jesus is not there.
Hear the word of 1 John 1 again. If we claim we have never sinned,
This is verse 10.
We make him a liar and his word is not in us.
The writer of 1 John, whoever that is, is not fooled by our aversion to accountability.
And cuts right to the core.
Of this honestly heretical understanding of individualized alpha male Christianity where might
12 makes right.
This is why so many in our country right now have an aversion to Jesus.
Who calls into question
Our very nature as lovers of ourselves.
More than our neighbors.
As servants only to our own desires and not to the lordship of Jesus Christ.
And prefer instead a Jesus fashioned in the image of ourselves.
That Jesus.
Jesus.
Who is really just an idealized version of ourselves, gives license for us to live into the worst,
Parts of ourselves.
Pastor Jasmine, I did not realize this week that when we decided together through the.
It's a sermon of the Holy Spirit that we're going to
i would be speaking about flavor flav this week.
Flavor, flame!
But I found Jesus this week on threads, which is increasingly hard to do.
I understand age to find Jesus on social media.
And I found him in a post.
by the flavor of all places.
Apparently, I didn't know this, but Flava Flav, a rapper, if you didn't know who he is, he wore a clock chain.
And I think he still does.
Um, yeah.
Apparently he's been working
For four and a half years on his sobriety.
And that's an accomplishment for sure.
Oh yeah.
Casa Jazz just said he's one of the most generous people in the world, and that's absolutely correct.
Addiction to substances, whatever they are.
It's a hard and difficult cycle and a disease to fight.
This week, Flava Flav relapsed.
and we wouldn't know anything about it.
Unless he had posted about it.
I don't even follow him, but somehow it appeared in my algorithm.
But I was struck by what he said.
It said about this experience, and if you'll permit me, I'm going to read it.
I remain authentic
To who I am.
And a large part of the past four and a half years for me has been my sobriety journey.
I think I've been an inspiration to many.
That if I could get sober, anyone could do it.
But just when you think it's easy,
It ain't.
I briefly relaxed.
I say this to admit my mistake.
And publicly hold myself accountable.
I am a human being who makes mistakes and it doesn't make me a bad person.
I hope those who are around me support my choice to be sober. I went back to day one.
again.
Time didn't stop. Stop.
My journey continues.
That, friends, is a word from the Lord for us this morning from Flava Flav.
Not only was he sorry, which he didn't have to say in the words for us to know that he was,
But he brought it.
This into the light
So that others might be strengthened in their journey.
That's what confession is all about.
When we make public
Real.
and faithful efforts to address the wrongs in our lives.
We collaborate with the Holy Spirit to create space for others to do the very same thing.
Confession is liberating, not just for us but for our community, which is one reason why it is so important for us to confess.
In community.
Did you know that we do that together once a month?
Here at Atlanta first.
Every time we approach this table
The first thing that we do
is confess our sins before God and one another.
And it's not representative of every single one of our citizens.
But it does cover quite a variety.
So instead of hearing
More of a sermon.
We thought it might be good this morning.
To get a little deeper into the elements of our confession.
As we approach the Lord's table together.
As we do so, remember this.
If we confess ourselves
God is faithful
And just.
To forgive our sins and to cleanse us.
From everything that we've done wrong.
Amen.
And amen.